# Engineering managers; what are the problems you face?

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=27264560

The questions asked:

* How do you ensure you are working on the most important items for the team?

* What's the thing that drains you the most?

* Where do you reach out to get advice outside of your company?

* What is missing from the tools you currently have?
	


### UncleMeat

What are the problems you face? Hard: I have a handful of possible customers for
my team, which projects and outcomes will be the most impactful? Harder: I have
long term relationships with other teams. How do I maintain those relationships
even if every single person on the other team turns over? Hardest: How do I
provide opportunities for my individual reports to achieve their personal career
goals while also ensuring that all of the work adds up to a meaningful whole?

Where do you reach out to get advice outside of your company? I get advice from
mentors within my company. I don't rely on external mentorship.

What is missing from the tools you currently have? I don't believe that tooling
can solve any of the hard problems I have. Management problems are people
problems, not technical problems.


### Jemaclus

what are the problems you face? Hiring. Finding solid, dependable people with
the right skills and attitude is really hard. I probably spend 30-40% of my time
on the hiring side of things. We have so much work to do and not enough people
to do it, and combining that with the slow rate of inbound high quality
candidates means that I have to spend a ton of my time screening and talking to
candidates. Diversity. It's nigh impossible to find women and other marginalized
groups. They're in such high demand and the supply is so low that it's just so
hard to hire people and have your team not look like a team of white dudes.

Where do you reach out to get advice outside of your company? I talk to my old
bosses and coworkers the most. I have a fantastic relationship with my last two
bosses. Nowadays we're peers (same title, different companies) and we compare
notes and mentor each other. If you don't have someone like this already, I
suggest going to meetups (post-COVID) and meet other engineering managers. A
shortcut to this is to find a new job, and then your old job colleagues can be
your external mentors ;) That said, there's nothing wrong with having mentors
within your company. Just be up-front with them about what you're looking for,
especially if they're upper management.

What is missing from the tools you currently have? I've never really found
that tools have an impact in either direction. I've yet to find a tool outside
of Excel/Google Sheets and email that is indispensable.

	
### stackdestroyer

How do you ensure you are working on the most important items for the team?
Being informed about what the top level company goals are as well as department
context and goals. If you can't draw a straight-ish line between what you're
working on and those goals, it's probably not aligned. Make sure you have a
defined and prioritized backlog of projects so that when you have the
time/resources, you can easily pluck the next one off of the stack.

What's the thing that drains you the most? Repeating myself over and over and
over (typically ~7 times) to get a message out to the team/org. Even smart
people act dumb sometimes, and don't listen/read when they should. It feels like
babysitting, sometimes.

Where do you reach out to get advice outside of your company? Books, blogs,
industry friends, and some mentors. I have found it difficult to make external
mentor friends, but still working on it.

What is missing from the tools you currently have? It's never about the tools.
Jira sucks, slack sucks, and so do most tools. Make sure you keep your workflow
simple and make it transparent, however you do it, so that not only can YOU see
what's going on, you can confidently share it with others (see? THIS is why your
feature isnt being worked on right now, etc.)
		
### spollo

How do you ensure you are working on the most important items for the team? Push
PMs to make decisions on metrics not gut. My contribution is to add engineering
and operations toil metrics to our dashboard. E.g. If the onboarding funnel is
converting at 90% but our average time to resolve tickets is a week, it's easy
to prioritize fixing some bugs over endless A/B tests in the funnel. Have really
open and regular dialogue with the team about what they want to work on and
where their gaps are, try to put them on projects that help them grow. I also
try to have my team interact with other teams as much as possible- customer
support, operations, pm, design, other teams. I find it helps give engineers a
more holistic picture of the business, the people and pain behind functions and
get in the mindset that delivering business value or reducing toil for people
can be more exciting than bringing in a shiny new library to our codebase.

Whats the thing that drains you the most? I have too many direct reports (12). I
spend so much time in 1-1s and meetings unblocking people, and despite all my
effort the team is not getting as much coaching as I want. I'm an introvert as
wells so it's exhausting. I'm working on hiring other managers and organizing us
into smaller teams, my goal is to have a 4:1 engineer to manager ratio this
year.

Where do you reach out to get advise outside of your company? Mostly I read a
lot, blog posts and books.

What is missing from the tools you currently have? I think my main problem is
there are too many tools. JIRA hurts almost as much as it helps, slack is a
disaster for focus. I'm trying to cut down on tools lately (eg. move out of
JIRA, just have a lightweight planning doc with some tables). It works for
shorter cycle projects when you have a strong team. One tool I would appreciate
is something that keeps me accountable for evaluating performance and giving
good performance feedback more regularly. I'm good at reflexive feedback but
really deep meaningful feedback takes time to craft, and it's easy to let it
slip with the barrage of information in the modern workplace.


### throwarayes

How do you ensure you are working on the most important items for the team?
Getting away from work is the best tool in my experience. Managers are
self-selected from a group of hard workers committed to the organization. They
can want to jump on urgent tasks to shield their teams. This is a great
instinct. BUT it can cross a line where the manager becomes ineffective and
begins feeling like they need to do everything, and loses trust in delegating to
others to handle these tasks. You can get into a negative "I alone" mindset,
where you feel like you have to carry the world on your shoulders. This can be
pretty damaging to the manager and the team. So getting away is a way to (a)
force others to take on more responsibility thus building your trust in their
ability and (b) get away from the urgent, crystalizing what's remaining as the
true 'important' ways you can help the team.

Whats the thing that drains you the most? Respond to slack, go to meetings,
slack, meetings, repeat... day ends and it feels like nothing got done

Where do you reach out to get advise outside of your company? Peers at other
companies. We have some strong relationships with companies we don't compete
with, and we share a lot of learnings about technology we use.

What is missing from the tools you currently have? IMO recruiting tools suck for
hiring managers. In my experience, the best devs react more positively to
hearing from a hiring manager than a recruiter, yet recruiting tools are built
for what feels like impersonal bulk-emailing. As the hiring manager, if I see
someone with relevant experience, I just end up sending a real email or LinkedIn
message with warm details about why the recruit looks interesting (with real
tech details, not recruiter BS). Yet on LinkedIn/Email the contact isn't in our
recruiting system... So when they do want to be interviewed, you have to get
them in the system somewhat manually.


### tyleo

How do you ensure you are working on the most important items for the team?
Constant communication with users to figure out what issues are impacting them
and what they would like to do with the product in the future.

Whats the thing that drains you the most? Trying to convince management to focus
on the right things. In practice this is really just me repeating the same thing
in meetings and 1:1s until they happen as I gather more and more data from users
directly, through analytics and share perspectives from people I manage.

Where do you reach out to get advise outside of your company? Other engineers
I’ve met over the course of my career. I also try to read for 30 min in the
morning. I read everything from self help sorta books to deeply technical books
about my area of expertise.

What is missing from the tools you currently have? Having used Jira and Azure
DevOps, scheduling tools still don’t seem great. The PM I work with prepares a
schedule in excel with me every quarter and we revisit it every few weeks.
People look at that like 5x as much as they look at our planning tool and it
takes like 1/10th the time to edit or less.


### cactus2093

I've managed engineers at small (series A and B) startups as well as big companies, and I've found the challenges are very different at both.

At small companies, my biggest challenge has usually been employee
growth/satisfaction and hiring. The saying "a rising tide lifts all boats" is
very true at startups. Either everyone succeeds together, in which case even the
below average performers will have great opportunities for growth and
advancement, or everyone languishes and eventually fails together, in which case
even the very top performers may have to go years without any real opportunities
for advancement or raises. Some churn is inevitable in most startups when the
trajectory of the company is not a perfectly smooth exponential (which it almost
never is even in successful companies). Hiring is also difficult, because as the
manager you often need to handle more of the process themselves without the
support of a recruiting org, and you'll always be at a disadvantage not being
able to pay nearly as much as big companies or have the name recognition so
closing candidates can be much harder (at least for me, I'm not a natural
salesperson so this is something I've really needed to work on).

At big companies, my biggest challenge has been navigating the organizational
complexity or what some might call "office politics". There is often no shortage
of opportunities at big companies, the cool thing is that even modest
improvements can lead to huge amounts of incremental revenue for the company.
But there are also a lot of things that are less exciting but need to be done to
keep the lights on. As a manager, if you have the chance to seek out the former
kinds of opportunities for your team and get new exciting initiatives greenlit
with upper management, that's often one of the best things you can do for them.
Or if the purpose of the team is more the latter category, then it's your job as
manager to still make sure everyone in the org understands that this is an
important and high impact area, and that you can show clear success metrics of
what your team doing a great job looks like. Individual growth and hiring are
still important of course at big companies, but there are existing resources in
HR and Recruiting that you can lean on to help with it (and there are often
strict rules that mean you couldn't deviate from the official processes here
even if you wanted to).


### peter_l_downs

How do you ensure you are working on the most important items for the team?
Here's the rough priority list: Do all the engineers know what they should be
working on? Do they know who from the product side they should go to for
questions if the specs are unclear? Do business, product, eng, all agree on what
we're doing? Does what we're doing match that agreement? Are our current
communication norms meeting our needs? Is the build / test / dev loop fast
enough? Are there tools that I need to upgrade / add / improve because we're now
bottlenecked? Can we still get away without building XYZ? Are people happy with
the work they're doing and with the people they're working with? Are people
getting to work on things that push their skills and limits in a way that helps
them keep growing, and if not, is that OK for now? Are people taking enough time
off when they want to so that they're not burning out? Is our hiring pipelined
correctly so that we're bringing new people on roughly when we'll need them? Are
we meeting all of our legal / security needs? Are we meeting the right amount of
the eng needs from the rest of the company, that may not be explicitly product
related?

Whats the thing that drains you the most? The thing that drains me most is
trying to do both management/comms work and hard technical work on the same day.
I do my best to manage my schedule so I have long blocks of either one or the
other but inevitably I'm interrupted. So it goes.

Where do you reach out to get advise outside of your company? I reach out to
former coworkers and mentors for advice. Everything I'm doing is based on what
I've seen my former managers and team leads do in the past, and I'm so grateful
to them for having demonstrated good leadership.

What is missing from the tools you currently have? I'm not missing any tools.
Team is largely happy. We're going to switch to BuildKite to improve build times
(currently on Google Cloud Build) for our frontend container, but after that we
should be set for a while.
